[D1] D1 RR Documentation (#20922)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: src/content/docs/d1/worker-api/d1-database.mdx

#### Return values

- None.

### `withSession`

Starts a D1 Session which activates read replication.

```ts
const session = env.DB.withSession("<constraint> or bookmark");
```

> #### Parameters

Reviewer: Make sure this matches https://chat.google.com/room/AAAASFG24Rc/4Xxewuj4s7A/2YXiSobzXVg?cls=10

Author: I believe the docs matches this - third bullet covers this change.

More generally - we currently frame the parameters as:

- Constraint
  - first-primary
  - first-unconstrained
- bookmark

Should we just put them on the same level?

- first-primary
- first-unconstrained
- bookmark

Author: Resolved offline, agreed to make it the same level.

  - The starting condition for the D1 Session. `<constraint>` can be one of two:
    - `first-primary`: Directs the first query in the Session (whether read or write) to the primary database instance. Use this option if you need to start the Session with the most up-to-date data from the primary database instance.
    - `first-unconstrained`: Directs the first query in the Session (whether read or write) to any database instance. Use this option if you do not need to start the Session with the most up-to-date data, and wish to prioritize minimizing query latency from the very start of the Session.

- <code>bookmark</code>: <Type text="String"/><MetaInfo text="Optional"/>
  - A [`bookmark`](/d1/reference/time-travel/#bookmarks) from an existing D1 Session. This allows you to continue the existing Session using the `bookmark` as a reference point.

- If no parameters are provided, `withSession` defaults to using the `first-unconstrained` parameter.

#### Return values

- <code>D1DatabaseSession</code>: <Type text="Object"/>
  - An object which contains the methods [`prepare()`](/d1/worker-api/d1-database#prepare) and [`getBookmark`](/d1/worker-api/d1-database#getbookmark).

> ### `getBookmark`

Reviewer: A method on `Session` not `DB`, create header for Session methods

#### Return values

- None.

### `withSession`

> Starts a D1 Session which activates read replication.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Starts a D1 Session which maintains sequential consistency among queries executed on the returned session object.
```
Using the Sessions API does not activate replicas!

  - Directs the first query in the Session (whether read or write) to the primary database instance. Use this option if you need to start the Session with the most up-to-date data from the primary database instance.
  - Subsequent queries in the Session may use read replicas.
  - Subsequent queries in the Session have sequential consistency.

- <code>first-unconstrained</code>: <Type text="String"/><MetaInfo text="Optional"/>
  - Directs the first query in the Session (whether read or write) to any database instance. Use this option if you do not need to start the Session with the most up-to-date data, and wish to prioritize minimizing query latency from the very start of the Session.
  - Subsequent queries in the Session have sequential consistency.
  - This is the default behavior when no parameters are provided.

- <code>bookmark</code>: <Type text="String"/><MetaInfo text="Optional"/>
  - A [`bookmark`](/d1/reference/time-travel/#bookmarks) from an existing D1 Session. This allows you to continue the existing Session using the `bookmark` as a reference point.
  - Subsequent queries in the Session have sequential consistency.

>   - You can return the last encountered `bookmark` for a given Session using [`session.getBookmark()`](/d1/worker-api/d1-database/#getbookmark).

Reviewer 2: This applies to all options.

#### Return values

- <code>D1DatabaseSession</code>: <Type text="Object"/>

>   - An object which contains the methods [`prepare()`](/d1/worker-api/d1-database#prepare) and [`getBookmark`](/d1/worker-api/d1-database#getbookmark).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - An object which contains the methods [`prepare()`](/d1/worker-api/d1-database#prepare) and [`batch()`](/d1/worker-api/d1-database#batch) similar to `D1Database`, along with the additional [`getBookmark`](/d1/worker-api/d1-database#getbookmark) method.
```

## Session methods

### `getBookmark`

> Retrieves the `bookmark` from the D1 Session.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Retrieves the latest `bookmark` from the D1 Session.
```

```ts
const session = db.withSession("first-primary");
return { bookmark } = session.getBookmark();
```

#### Parameters

- None

#### Return values

- <code>bookmark</code>: <Type text="String | null"/>

>   - A [`bookmark`](/d1/reference/time-travel/#bookmarks) which identifies the latest version of the database seen by the write query.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - A [`bookmark`](/d1/reference/time-travel/#bookmarks) which identifies the latest version of the database seen by all queries executed within the session.
```
